README.md, before:

# js-libp2p-mplex

[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/made%20by-Protocol%20Labs-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](http://protocol.ai)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/project-libp2p-yellow.svg?style=flat-square)](http://libp2p.io/)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/freenode-%23libp2p-yellow.svg?style=flat-square)](http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=%23libp2p)
[![Discourse posts](https://img.shields.io/discourse/https/discuss.libp2p.io/posts.svg)](https://discuss.libp2p.io)
[![](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/libp2p/js-libp2p-mplex.svg?style=flat-square)](https://codecov.io/gh/libp2p/js-libp2p-mplex)
[![](https://img.shields.io/travis/libp2p/js-libp2p-mplex.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.com/libp2p/js-libp2p-mplex)
[![Dependency Status](https://david-dm.org/libp2p/js-libp2p-mplex.svg?style=flat-square)](https://david-dm.org/libp2p/js-libp2p-mplex)
[![js-standard-style](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-standard-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/feross/standard)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/npm-%3E%3D6.0.0-orange.svg?style=flat-square)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-%3E%3D10.0.0-orange.svg?style=flat-square)

> JavaScript implementation of [mplex](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/tree/master/mplex).

[![](https://github.com/libp2p/interface-stream-muxer/raw/master/img/badge.png)](https://github.com/libp2p/interface-stream-muxer)

## Lead Maintainer

[Vasco Santos](https://github.com/vasco-santos)

## Install

```sh
npm install libp2p-mplex
```

## Usage

```js
const Mplex = require('libp2p-mplex')
const pipe = require('it-pipe')

const muxer = new Mplex({
  onStream: stream => { // Receive a duplex stream from the remote
    // ...receive data from the remote and optionally send data back
  },
  onStreamEnd: stream => {
    // ...handle any tracking you may need of stream closures
  }
})

pipe(conn, muxer, conn) // conn is duplex connection to another peer

const stream = muxer.newStream() // Create a new duplex stream to the remote

// Use the duplex stream to send some data to the remote...
pipe([1, 2, 3], stream)
```

## API

### `const muxer = new Mplex([options])`

Create a new _duplex_ stream that can be piped together with a connection in order to allow multiplexed communications.

e.g.

```js
const Mplex = require('libp2p-mplex')
const pipe = require('it-pipe')

// Create a duplex muxer
const muxer = new Mplex()

// Use the muxer in a pipeline
pipe(conn, muxer, conn) // conn is duplex connection to another peer
```

`options` is an optional `Object` that may have the following properties:

* `onStream` - A function called when receiving a new stream from the remote. e.g.
    ```js
    // Receive a new stream on the muxed connection
    const onStream = stream => {
      // Read from this stream and write back to it (echo server)
      pipe(
        stream,
        source => (async function * () {
          for await (const data of source) yield data
        })(),
        stream
      )
    }
    const muxer = new Mplex({ onStream })
    // ...
    ```
    **Note:** The `onStream` function can be passed in place of the `options` object. i.e.
    ```js
    new Mplex(stream => { /* ... */ })
    ```
* `onStreamEnd` - A function called when a stream ends
    ```js
    // Receive a notification when a stream ends
    const onStreamEnd = stream => {
      // Manage any tracking changes, etc
    }
    const muxer = new Mplex({ onStreamEnd })
    // ...
    ```
* `signal` - An [`AbortSignal`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AbortSignal) which can be used to abort the muxer, _including_ all of it's multiplexed connections. e.g.
    ```js
    const controller = new AbortController()
    const muxer = new Mplex({ signal: controller.signal })

    pipe(conn, muxer, conn)

    controller.abort()
    ```
* `maxMsgSize` - The maximum size in bytes the data field of multiplexed messages may contain (default 1MB)

### `muxer.onStream`

Use this property as an alternative to passing `onStream` as an option to the `Mplex` constructor.

### `muxer.onStreamEnd`

Use this property as an alternative to passing `onStreamEnd` as an option to the `Mplex` constructor.

### `muxer.streams`

Returns an `Array` of streams that are currently open. Closed streams will not be returned.

### `const stream = muxer.newStream([options])`

Initiate a new stream with the remote. Returns a [duplex stream](https://gist.github.com/alanshaw/591dc7dd54e4f99338a347ef568d6ee9#duplex-it).

e.g.

```js
// Create a new stream on the muxed connection
const stream = muxer.newStream()

// Use this new stream like any other duplex stream:
pipe([1, 2, 3], stream, consume)
```

In addition to `sink` and `source` properties, this stream also has the following API, that will **normally _not_ be used by stream consumers**.

#### `stream.close()`

Closes the stream for **reading**. If iterating over the source of this stream in a `for await of` loop, it will return (exit the loop) after any buffered data has been consumed.

This function is called automatically by the muxer when it receives a `CLOSE` message from the remote.

The source will return normally, the sink will continue to consume.

#### `stream.abort([err])`

Closes the stream for **reading** _and_ **writing**. This should be called when a _local error_ has occurred.

Note, if called without an error any buffered data in the source can still be consumed and the stream will end normally.

This will cause a `RESET` message to be sent to the remote, _unless_ the sink has already ended.

The sink will return and the source will throw if an error is passed or return normally if not.

#### `stream.reset()`

Closes the stream _immediately_ for **reading** _and_ **writing**. This should be called when a _remote error_ has occurred.

This function is called automatically by the muxer when it receives a `RESET` message from the remote.

The sink will return and the source will throw.

#### `stream.timeline`

Returns an `object` with `close` and `open` times of the stream.

#### `stream.id`

Returns a `string` with an identifier unique to **this** muxer. Identifiers are not unique across muxers.

## Contribute

The libp2p implementation in JavaScript is a work in progress. As such, there are a few things you can do right now to help out:

 - Go through the modules and **check out existing issues**. This is especially useful for modules in active development. Some knowledge of IPFS/libp2p may be required, as well as the infrastructure behind it - for instance, you may need to read up on p2p and more complex operations like muxing to be able to help technically.
 - **Perform code reviews**. More eyes will help a) speed the project along b) ensure quality and c) reduce possible future bugs.
 - **Add tests**. There can never be enough tests.

## License

[MIT](LICENSE) © Protocol Labs

Commit message:

feat: add support for closeRead and closeWrite
BREAKING CHANGE: close will now close both reading and writing on the stream. It previously only closed for reading, which was not the correct behavior.

README.md, after:

# js-libp2p-mplex

[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/made%20by-Protocol%20Labs-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](http://protocol.ai)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/project-libp2p-yellow.svg?style=flat-square)](http://libp2p.io/)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/freenode-%23libp2p-yellow.svg?style=flat-square)](http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=%23libp2p)
[![Discourse posts](https://img.shields.io/discourse/https/discuss.libp2p.io/posts.svg)](https://discuss.libp2p.io)
[![](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/libp2p/js-libp2p-mplex.svg?style=flat-square)](https://codecov.io/gh/libp2p/js-libp2p-mplex)
[![](https://img.shields.io/travis/libp2p/js-libp2p-mplex.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.com/libp2p/js-libp2p-mplex)
[![Dependency Status](https://david-dm.org/libp2p/js-libp2p-mplex.svg?style=flat-square)](https://david-dm.org/libp2p/js-libp2p-mplex)
[![js-standard-style](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-standard-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/feross/standard)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/npm-%3E%3D6.0.0-orange.svg?style=flat-square)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-%3E%3D10.0.0-orange.svg?style=flat-square)

> JavaScript implementation of [mplex](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/tree/master/mplex).

[![](https://github.com/libp2p/interface-stream-muxer/raw/master/img/badge.png)](https://github.com/libp2p/interface-stream-muxer)

## Lead Maintainer

[Vasco Santos](https://github.com/vasco-santos)

## Install

```sh
npm install libp2p-mplex
```

## Usage

```js
const Mplex = require('libp2p-mplex')
const pipe = require('it-pipe')

const muxer = new Mplex({
  onStream: stream => { // Receive a duplex stream from the remote
    // ...receive data from the remote and optionally send data back
  },
  onStreamEnd: stream => {
    // ...handle any tracking you may need of stream closures
  }
})

pipe(conn, muxer, conn) // conn is duplex connection to another peer

const stream = muxer.newStream() // Create a new duplex stream to the remote

// Use the duplex stream to send some data to the remote...
pipe([1, 2, 3], stream)
```

## API

### `const muxer = new Mplex([options])`

Create a new _duplex_ stream that can be piped together with a connection in order to allow multiplexed communications.

e.g.

```js
const Mplex = require('libp2p-mplex')
const pipe = require('it-pipe')

// Create a duplex muxer
const muxer = new Mplex()

// Use the muxer in a pipeline
pipe(conn, muxer, conn) // conn is duplex connection to another peer
```

`options` is an optional `Object` that may have the following properties:

* `onStream` - A function called when receiving a new stream from the remote. e.g.
    ```js
    // Receive a new stream on the muxed connection
    const onStream = stream => {
      // Read from this stream and write back to it (echo server)
      pipe(
        stream,
        source => (async function * () {
          for await (const data of source) yield data
        })(),
        stream
      )
    }
    const muxer = new Mplex({ onStream })
    // ...
    ```
    **Note:** The `onStream` function can be passed in place of the `options` object. i.e.
    ```js
    new Mplex(stream => { /* ... */ })
    ```
* `onStreamEnd` - A function called when a stream ends
    ```js
    // Receive a notification when a stream ends
    const onStreamEnd = stream => {
      // Manage any tracking changes, etc
    }
    const muxer = new Mplex({ onStreamEnd })
    // ...
    ```
* `signal` - An [`AbortSignal`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AbortSignal) which can be used to abort the muxer, _including_ all of it's multiplexed connections. e.g.
    ```js
    const controller = new AbortController()
    const muxer = new Mplex({ signal: controller.signal })

    pipe(conn, muxer, conn)

    controller.abort()
    ```
* `maxMsgSize` - The maximum size in bytes the data field of multiplexed messages may contain (default 1MB)

### `muxer.onStream`

Use this property as an alternative to passing `onStream` as an option to the `Mplex` constructor.

### `muxer.onStreamEnd`

Use this property as an alternative to passing `onStreamEnd` as an option to the `Mplex` constructor.

### `muxer.streams`

Returns an `Array` of streams that are currently open. Closed streams will not be returned.

### `const stream = muxer.newStream([options])`

Initiate a new stream with the remote. Returns a [duplex stream](https://gist.github.com/alanshaw/591dc7dd54e4f99338a347ef568d6ee9#duplex-it).

e.g.

```js
// Create a new stream on the muxed connection
const stream = muxer.newStream()

// Use this new stream like any other duplex stream:
pipe([1, 2, 3], stream, consume)
```

In addition to `sink` and `source` properties, this stream also has the following API, that will **normally _not_ be used by stream consumers**.

#### `stream.close()`

Closes the stream for **reading** and **writing**. If iterating over the source of this stream in a `for await of` loop, it will return (exit the loop) after any buffered data has been consumed.

#### `stream.closeRead()`

Closes the stream for **reading**, but still allows writing. This should not typically be called by application code, but may be used for one way, push only streams.

This function is called automatically by the muxer when it receives a `CLOSE` message from the remote.

#### `stream.closeWrite()`

Closes the stream for **writing**, but still allows reading. This is useful for when you only ever wish to read from a stream.

#### `stream.abort([err])`

Closes the stream for **reading** _and_ **writing**. This should be called when a _local error_ has occurred.

Note, if called without an error any buffered data in the source can still be consumed and the stream will end normally.

This will cause a `RESET` message to be sent to the remote, _unless_ the sink has already ended.

The sink will return and the source will throw if an error is passed or return normally if not.

#### `stream.reset()`

Closes the stream _immediately_ for **reading** _and_ **writing**. This should be called when a _remote error_ has occurred.

This function is called automatically by the muxer when it receives a `RESET` message from the remote.

The sink will return and the source will throw.

#### `stream.timeline`

Returns an `object` with `close` and `open` times of the stream.

#### `stream.id`

Returns a `string` with an identifier unique to **this** muxer. Identifiers are not unique across muxers.

## Contribute

The libp2p implementation in JavaScript is a work in progress. As such, there are a few things you can do right now to help out:

 - Go through the modules and **check out existing issues**. This is especially useful for modules in active development. Some knowledge of IPFS/libp2p may be required, as well as the infrastructure behind it - for instance, you may need to read up on p2p and more complex operations like muxing to be able to help technically.
 - **Perform code reviews**. More eyes will help a) speed the project along b) ensure quality and c) reduce possible future bugs.
 - **Add tests**. There can never be enough tests.

## License

[MIT](LICENSE) © Protocol Labs
